what is virtualization?
virtualization is a practice or concept of allowing users to access multiple virtual machines or servers on a single physical device or server.
with the help of hypervisors.

what are hypervisors?
these are softwares or applications that helps to manage virtual machines one our physical device.

advantages of virtualization:
  we can install multiple virtual machines or computers or servers in a single device
  each machine has its own OS and dependencies
  better hardware usage
  applications can run independently without interruption.
  
disadvantages of virtualization:
  due to lot of dependencies and completes OS storage. applications take more time to get started.
  slower performance and heavy in size

Example for vitualization:
  consider apartment building as physical device
  each flat in apartment is a virtual machine
  each flat has its own kitchen, bedroom, hall just like each machine having its own OS, libraries and more.
  each families live independently in thier flats just like each machines are working independently on a single physical device.

what is containerization?
    it is a practice which packages our application and its required dependencies inside a isolated box called container.
    and this technology is bieng called as containerization.
    
to overcome from the drawbacks of virtualization we came up with this technology.

advantages of containerization:
    here each application will be stored inside a container along with its dependencies.
    there will not be seperate OS for each application.
    each application stored in a container uses host OS along with dependencies to run
    because of sharing host OS there will be faster runtime as the containers will be lightweight.

example for containerization:
    lets consider PG building as physical device
    there will be seperate rooms for each individuals just like each application residing inside a container
    there will be single mess, tv room, playing area, gym for all individuals just like all applications sharing host OS

what are dependencies?
    these are additional tools or ingrediants to run an application
    
    example: maggie will be our application
            ingrediants like gas, water, pan, oil and more are dependencies just like for a java application to run we should 
            have its configuration files, JDK, runtime machine and libraries.

what are libraries?
    whenever developer writes a code there will be lot of functions or piece of code which are used to perform specific tasks.
    instead of writing same code again to do the same task we can use these predefined piece of code to perform tasks.
    these piece of predefined code or inbuilt functions are called as libraries
